prep release: v1.13.0 (#2841)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning v2.0.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

# [1.13.0] - 2023-03-23

## 🚀 Features

### Uplink metrics and improved logging ([Issue #2769](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2769), [Issue #2815](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2815), [Issue #2816](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2816))

For monitoring, observability and debugging requirements around Uplink-related behaviors (those which occur as part of Managed Federation) the router now emits better log messages and emits new metrics around these facilities.  The new metrics are:

- `apollo_router_uplink_duration_seconds_bucket`: A _histogram_ of durations with the following attributes:

  - `url`: The URL that was polled
  - `query`: `SupergraphSdl` or `Entitlement`
  - `type`: `new`, `unchanged`, `http_error`, `uplink_error`, or `ignored`
  - `code`: The error code, depending on `type`
  - `error`: The error message

> - `apollo_router_uplink_fetch_count_total`: A _gauge_ that counts the overall success (`status="success"`) or failure (`status="failure"`) counts occur when communicating to Uplink _without_ taking into account fallback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `apollo_router_uplink_fetch_count_total`: A _gauge_ that counts the overall success (`status="success"`) or failure (`status="failure"`) counts that occur when communicating to Uplink _without_ taking into account fallback.
```

```

By [@BrynCooke](https://github.com/BrynCooke) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2779, https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2817, https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2819  https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2826

## 🐛 Fixes

### Only process Uplink messages that are deemed to be newer ([Issue #2794](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2794))

Uplink is backed by multiple cloud providers to ensure high availability. However, this means that there will be periods of time where Uplink endpoints do not agree on what the latest data is.  They are eventually consistent.

This has not been a problem for most users, as the default mode of operation for the router is to fallback to the secondary Uplink endpoint if the first fails.

The other mode of operation, is round-robin, which is triggered only when setting the `APOLLO_UPLINK_ENDPOINTS` environment variable.  In this mode there is a much higher chance that the router will end up flapping due to disagreement between the Apollo Uplink servers or any user-provided proxies set into this variable.

This change introduces two fixes:

> 1. The Router checks uplink messages against the last known message to see if it is newer. Messages that are old are discarded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The Router checks uplink messages against the last known message to see if it is newer. Older messages are discarded.
```

2. The Router will _only_ use fallback strategy. Uplink endpoints are only eventually consistent, and therefore it is better to always poll a primary source of information if available.

We will be improving the robustness of the solution over the next weeks, including via other fixes in this release, so this can be seen as an incremental improvement.

> > Note: We advise against using `APOLLO_UPLINK_ENDPOINTS` to try to cache uplink responses for HA purposes. Each request to Uplink currently sends state which limits the usefulness of such a cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: We advise against using `APOLLO_UPLINK_ENDPOINTS` to try to cache uplink responses for high availability purposes. Each request to Uplink currently sends state which limits the usefulness of such a cache.
```

                                                      | subgraph_request MyQuery__my-subgraph-name__0    |
```

All this logic is gated behind the configuration `enable_span_mapping` which, if set to `true`, will take the values from the span attributes.

By [@samuelAndalon](https://github.com/samuelAndalon) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2790

## 🛠 Maintenance

### Migrate `xtask` CLI parsing from `StructOpt` to `Clap` ([Issue #2807](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2807))

As an internal improvement to our tooling, we've migrated our `xtask` toolset from `StructOpt` to `Clap`, since `StructOpt` is in maintenance mode.

By [@BrynCooke](https://github.com/BrynCooke) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2808

### Subgraph configuration override ([Issue #2426](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2426))

We've introduced a new generic wrapper type for _subgraph-level_ configuration, with the following behaviour:

- If there's a config in `all`, it applies to all subgraphs. If it is not there, the default values apply
- If there's a config in `subgraphs` for a specific _named_ subgraph:

>   - the fields it does specify override the fields specified in `all`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - the fields it specifies override the fields specified in `all`
```
